Gwenevere Abriel: Joshua Lopez.
Gwenevere Abriel: TV.
Gwenevere Abriel: Would you watch
Joshua Lopez: sopranos
Gwenevere Abriel: Nice school
Joshua Lopez: Yeah, I've never seen it and it's something I've always wanted to see and it came out on Hulu, so
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh man, and you have so many seasons to go through do. That's great.
Joshua Lopez: Yeah. So something to keep me busy for sure.
Gwenevere Abriel: We I watched so much that I like, I got nothing.
Joshua Lopez: That is so cool. I would have never thought you would watch like Sopranos, that is so cool.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, I absolutely love it. I'm know right cuz then you can live out all this dark evil crooked stuff, you know, you're like yeah he's the bad guy, you know, because
Gwenevere Abriel: I live in re right everything I do is, Greg. Greg, Greg. No, it's not right. No, it's not wrong, but this you get to really her, you know,
Joshua Lopez: Yeah.
Joshua Lopez: For sure.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right. Um, let me get a note going here while you are getting comfy or your kids home with you.
Joshua Lopez: Know it's my long week at work. So, this week I got him.
Gwenevere Abriel: What's that been like for you.
Joshua Lopez: Whoo, has not been for
Joshua Lopez: Not being good at all.
Gwenevere Abriel: Like having those kiddos around. Don't just
Always
Gwenevere Abriel: So have you
Gwenevere Abriel: Have you been feeling lonely, is that been the predominant emotion. This last week.
Joshua Lopez: It has, it has
Joshua Lopez: Well, I know I was doing pretty good. I'm
Joshua Lopez: Doing pretty good. Today, it kind of just, you know, just sunk in that
Joshua Lopez: I still got a long ways to go before I see him on Sunday.
Joshua Lopez: The house is just empty quiet.
Joshua Lopez: Just DISTRACTING MYSELF watching TV. Probably going to clean up do stuff like that.
Joshua Lopez: But most of the week has been okay I just went to work I avoided being sad. I'm just, you know, I've been practicing not to think on
Joshua Lopez: Or dwell on other stuff. Just try to focus on the possibilities, you know, just the possibilities of what could be coming you know future why
Joshua Lopez: Just stuff like that. I do got a void getting on these stupid.
Joshua Lopez: shopping sites because I
Joshua Lopez: Just, I can't, I can't look at stuff and not want it. So I'm like, Oh, I got to avoid getting on these sites already
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, okay.
Joshua Lopez: I did buy a dining table, though. On the bright side, so
Gwenevere Abriel: You gotta have a dining table. I don't think that that's an observant and expense.
Joshua Lopez: No, no.
Gwenevere Abriel: You needed a dining table. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: But you are noticing.
Gwenevere Abriel: What you're noticing it is right that retail therapy can be just as dangerous as going to a casino.
Joshua Lopez: Absolutely. Like last night, um, because they did. I got my account from Amazon and you know it was okay. It worked out. And then I've discovered this other site called way fair and they actually have some really nice stuff.
Joshua Lopez: So I purchased the dining room table, then another one popped up on my Facebook called Top patter, I didn't know how top header work. I didn't really know what it was.
Gwenevere Abriel: What is that
Joshua Lopez: Um, they I guess they just auction stuff on there I it was my first time being on it last night. The only reason why I clicked on it.
Joshua Lopez: They had some NFL New Era hats and I was like, oh, I need a new hat. So I went on it and there was only like three teams. And I was like, wow, that's not my team so
Joshua Lopez: I clicked out of it and then it popped up all their other stuff. And I was like, ooh, that's pretty nice, or that's nice and spent $50 last night and I shouldn't have even like regretted it immediately.
Joshua Lopez: I started bidding. It started off like twin no sorry off like at $8 and then I did somebody outbid me then it just got, like, Well, I'm going to outbid you type thing. And then once I outbid the person I was like waiting for them to counter me
Joshua Lopez: And they didn't and ended up purchasing it and I was like, Wait, did I really want that, you know, I just think it was just, I was bored. It was something to do. And I don't know why. It just felt good to outbid this person, you know,
Joshua Lopez: I don't know, I'm not going back on that site anytime soon, for sure.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, well you just learned a pretty cheap 50 bucks is not a really painful way to learn that
Gwenevere Abriel: You are kind of basing it more on you know we do we get this little, little reward center around competition and you got a little bit of that.
Gwenevere Abriel: And lesson learned. So hopefully, it ends there. We'll see. Yeah.
Joshua Lopez: It definitely it definitely will. I mean, the shopping online, I still think I will. You know, I still need to purchase certain things like a tv stand
Joshua Lopez: Which I plan to do next week.
Joshua Lopez: You know, with everything being closed it sucks because
Joshua Lopez: You purchase these things and you don't feel rewarded because you got to wait two weeks for it to come in but stuff, stuff I need also found a really, really nice bunk bed set for my kiddos. They have a bed. It's, um, I don't know what you call it, it's kind of like
Joshua Lopez: Oh my gosh, I can't explain it, but
Joshua Lopez: Let me see real quick. It has where you pull out a second bed from underneath it.
Joshua Lopez: I know
Joshua Lopez: Trundle. There you go. There it is. Okay. I was gonna like give you a quick view of it because I couldn't think of the name. But yes, it's a Trundle it's okay for now but
Joshua Lopez: You know, they're excited about the idea of a bunk bed first I'll get my tv stand because they don't meet the bed right away but
Joshua Lopez: Down one for like $300 it's would nice it matches our decor. So I don't know how long it will take to get that one but I definitely will probably get that as well.
Joshua Lopez: And then there was some really neat like decorations that I want to get eventually
Joshua Lopez: You know, just, just to make the House feel like home more homey. The walls are kind of blank right now.
Joshua Lopez: I did go to Big Lots originally to find a way
Joshua Lopez: To look at their furniture and I didn't realize big locked had some decent furniture there. But unfortunately, since they're one of the only
Joshua Lopez: Doors that's considered a central to the cell like cleaning products and food and stuff there. Well, everybody's going there looking at their furniture. So everything they had on display was out of stock.
Oh,
Joshua Lopez: That's one of the reasons I got online in order to dining table because they had to there that I really liked and I was like, well, can I reserve one can I, you know, purchase one
Joshua Lopez: They're like you could put one on layaway and they'll put you off the top of their list, but we won't have an idea of when it'll be here. So rather than doing that. I just said, screw it. I'll get one online, but I did find some really neat picture frames there.
Joshua Lopez: And I was really proud of these. I thought they were pretty awesome.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, those are adorable.
Joshua Lopez: It's the only thing I the only thing I have hung up for
Joshua Lopez: You know, just little things like that, just, you know, just like I said when I get down I try and focus on the possibilities.
Joshua Lopez: Whether they be good, bad or great, I'm just not trying to dwell on what I can't control right now, you know, just trying to look forward to, hey you know I'm
Joshua Lopez: Your apartments coming together. It's looking good. You have a good job. You're making good money the possibilities, you know, are there the opportunities are there. Um, so yeah.
Joshua Lopez: It's helped it definitely has I've felt a lot stronger this past week than I have in a while. Today was just minor setback. I did feel lonely. You know that lonely feeling of an empty house.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: A couple of things.
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't know if this is something useful or not. But what some people do is for every hundred dollars they wait that many days.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's say it's a $300 purchase, they won't hit
Gwenevere Abriel: By until they've waited three days.
Gwenevere Abriel: And interesting things happen over those three days. And so if you start to notice you don't have the money for the things that you
Gwenevere Abriel: had originally wanted and you're spending too much money over here. You may try that out so that $50 would have been
Gwenevere Abriel: Like five hours. Before you hit send to you would have not been able to quite fully. Oh, look at that. I'm being impulsive. Do I need a hat. Well,
Gwenevere Abriel: So if you have something running in the background that you kind of already have sort of this platform that you typically approach big purchases
Gwenevere Abriel: That can be useful, because then you will mitigate sort of impulse, so use it never use it teach it only don't use it. That's up to you. But for some people. That's handy. And then you know what I mean.
Joshua Lopez: That actually is, you know, cuz it was impulsive, I can kind of be an impulsive person. And then when I'm feeling down on it's you know it's definitely like like
Joshua Lopez: Like a quick quick little, like, Oh, I feel better. You know, it doesn't last. But it was impulsive. It was very impulsive. Last night I just felt really just little down you know because originally, I would get my kids on
Joshua Lopez: A day like yesterday after work. I have the next two days off, I would pick them up and it just, it just it's a it's coming home to an empty house for sure.
Gwenevere Abriel: Was there ever times when
Gwenevere Abriel: The house was full, full of people and you wish you could have had a little a long time. Was there ever any history where you've had them.
Joshua Lopez: I'm not that I can recall. I'm sure maybe
Joshua Lopez: I was highly stressed or something. Maybe I wanted to get away, but I never had that means to get away. You know what I mean. So
Joshua Lopez: And I just mean, personally, a lot of people are like, oh, I need a break from my kids or my kids are driving me crazy. I welcome it. You know, I just feel like I was born to be a dad.
Joshua Lopez: Just, I love, I love being a daddy. You know, I love, I love when they come to me and you know the the week that I had on Friday night, my daughter, she's on antibiotics and she had a really bad reaction to it like really bad.
Joshua Lopez: So I called the emergency room. I was on hold for two hours they forgot about me.
Joshua Lopez: I had a call from my daughter's phone. They're like, Oh, we're so sorry. You know, you shouldn't have been on hold that long. Go ahead and hang up on that call will connect you straight to the nurse assistance line.
Joshua Lopez: Instead they connected me and it took me straight to a survey asking how my nurses
Joshua Lopez: experience was. And I was like, we haven't talked to in there. So I did their little stupid survey and then the call ended.
Joshua Lopez: Back again. Finally, they're like it or seen within 24 hours. You did the right thing by giving her Benadryl
Joshua Lopez: We don't think it's antibiotics because she's been on them for like eight days where I go to the doctors. They
Joshua Lopez: Tell me. No, it's perfectly normal people can have a reaction, even when they finished their antibiotics to three days later. So I got that taken care of. And that's just, you know, I was I was glad I was there, you know, I was glad that I got to
Joshua Lopez: Take care of it for her, you know,
Joshua Lopez: Rather than getting a phone call from their mom saying, oh, I have to take her to the doctor and
Joshua Lopez: Kind of just feeling like I wasn't there. You know what I mean. I just, I welcome those things. There's challenging there whatever they are, but it just keeps in my, in my mind occupied and I just you know i i want to be there all the time.
Gwenevere Abriel: I noticed when you were in group that you liked
Gwenevere Abriel: The cognitive behavioral video and
Gwenevere Abriel: So I think let's continue that. Then there's a lot of information out there that what you and I mostly do is
Gwenevere Abriel: This big pieces of it that are cognitive, behavioral, but let's turn our attention to this this worksheet. I've have and it's 15 ways to untwist you're thinking
Gwenevere Abriel: I mean, if you like, just that simple thing that that guy had done, you may want to do a print screen of this thing and not print screen, but a screenshot.
Joshua Lopez: Not the greatest doing stuff like that. But let me see if I can
Gwenevere Abriel: For me it's the power button. And I think the bottom
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't know what to call down the bottom right hand button. There's two buttons on the right. So I do those together and it screenshots it I learned that my accident so I
Gwenevere Abriel: Was like, oh, that's how you do it.
Joshua Lopez: Yeah, I'm not the most tech savvy person I am.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, like, Tell me what kind of phone. Maybe I could look it up quickly on how to do it.
Joshua Lopez: What kind of file, it is a Samsung
Joshua Lopez: Want to say Galaxy S g seven
Joshua Lopez: I believe that's what it is.
Joshua Lopez: I mean, shoot, man. A year ago I barely use my phone just for text messaging and for phone calls. I didn't have Facebook or Instagram or anything.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'll tell your kids that
Joshua Lopez: I'm pretty I'm pretty historic when it comes to technology and learning now that I'm too old, you know, to use these type of things.
Gwenevere Abriel: Screen. I just see what I got here.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay so Samsung Galaxy j s how to take a screenshot.
Gwenevere Abriel: Stop share here, and instead share this on. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well guys, in this short tutorial. I just wanted to show you how to think of bringing screen or screenshot with Samsung Galaxy seven. It is very easy to do that. Just press together the phone. Can you send our key here we go like that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, wow, okay. So you got your home button. That's the button that you wake the thing up and then you got your power button on the right. So you do those two things together and then. So what we want a screenshot is this guy me just make it looks. That's the wrong guy.
Gwenevere Abriel: Do many guys let me see.
Gwenevere Abriel: What's this one here.
Joshua Lopez: A little different, but I'm going to try it anyway.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, let's get this guy up here, and that's the one we want.
Gwenevere Abriel: Should make up like a picture sound like a shutter have a camera going you know like a picture sound.
Yeah.
Joshua Lopez: It did something it, I think.
Joshua Lopez: If
Gwenevere Abriel: You chopped it up.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, well my you saw how easy that was to get so you can look kind of for that information.
Gwenevere Abriel: Maybe not from some of you Ukrainian dude but
Joshua Lopez: OK. OK. So I tried doing it and I held it for a while and it popped up taking screenshots, press and hold the power key and volume down key.
Joshua Lopez: Together to take the Koreans take a screenshot. So let me try that real quick.
Joshua Lopez: Oh, there we go. Sweet. What do you
Gwenevere Abriel: Know, look at that get non techie. You know what's really cool is there's going to be times when you want to take a picture of something instead of describing it to someone or there'll be a website, you just want to forward that thing on that image on even to a kid.
Gwenevere Abriel: You could just screenshot it and then you message it in a text. It's so convenient.
Joshua Lopez: Yeah, that's honestly. Pretty cool. I'm glad I learned that that is pretty cool.
Gwenevere Abriel: I think it's very funny that this this neat being the one that taught you that I think that's very, very funny.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so let's take a look at what you took a screenshot of
Gwenevere Abriel: And this could be something that you do, maybe even today when you get yourself. Sort of. Sort of spiraling down into a sad, like you continue the thinking of the sad initial thought
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm alone. I don't like this empty house. Look at this empty house. This room is empty to always be like this when you start feeding that sponsoring thought it will continue.
Gwenevere Abriel: But if you interrupt the thought by and this is purely just cognitive behavioral intervention here was obviously lots of different you've been doing them use distraction you stay busy.
Gwenevere Abriel: And this is yet another way to intervene in the negative thinking
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's just go through each one. First one. It's called identify the distortions. So you write down your negative thoughts. So just try and catch the one last night was the one that started last night and its continued on into today. What was the negative thought you had
Joshua Lopez: Just coming home to an empty house was being being alone not hearing, hearing the kiddos voices are
Gwenevere Abriel: So Joshua, just so you know, those are events.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's not the actual thought we almost there. You noticed an empty house there was the absence of sound and you noticed there were missing people
Gwenevere Abriel: It is your belief that happens about that empty house about that empty room about how quiet is. That's what we're looking for what meaning do you make out of that empty house.
Um,
Joshua Lopez: That it felt like this isn't how it should be. I felt like
I
Joshua Lopez: Felt like it shouldn't be this way. You know, it should be with my kids.
Joshua Lopez: just felt like
So,
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, stay there. Stay there, stay there and go anywhere. Stay right there.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm
Gwenevere Abriel: Open the door, no one's there and it is quiet.
Gwenevere Abriel: What does that quiet say about who you are.
Gwenevere Abriel: And the value
Gwenevere Abriel: Of you. What does it say
Gwenevere Abriel: Don't go fast, go really slow in this. These are hard enough to get to. So, opening up the door and it's quiet and there's no one there. What does that say about you.
Joshua Lopez: Know if
Gwenevere Abriel: You have one we just decided not to say it, you have one that just passed through your mind and you elected not to tell me had one just now.
Gwenevere Abriel: I am what
Joshua Lopez: I'm lonely.
Gwenevere Abriel: What okay
Gwenevere Abriel: You're going to take it to the next level. Then what does that say about you that you are lonely. What does that mean to you I'm what
Joshua Lopez: I'm lonely. I'm
Joshua Lopez: Sad that they're not here.
Joshua Lopez: Said that
Joshua Lopez: Don't look forward to the weekend.
Gwenevere Abriel: Know you're drifting come back. These are hard to get to remember. I warned you about that they're really hard to get. So I'm lonely stick with a lonely. What kind of guy feels lonely.
Gwenevere Abriel: Take it away from you for a minute, and let's go picturing someone he goes home he opens the door and no one's there. What do you think about that guy. He's what
Joshua Lopez: Only
Was her emotions.
Gwenevere Abriel: What do you think about him. He's what
Joshua Lopez: Incomplete
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, what's your judgment of him if he's incomplete.
Joshua Lopez: These are really hard to get to try
Gwenevere Abriel: That their their their hard earned, which means they're yours forever, so wait it out. They're worth the wait.
Gwenevere Abriel: Cuz I'm not in any rush, although I'm kind of keep sort of demanding something on this, not a rush.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I'll show you picture a guy.
Gwenevere Abriel: Drives in holes into this new place opens the door.
Gwenevere Abriel: No one's there.
Gwenevere Abriel: What do you think of them.
Joshua Lopez: Go for him. I feel empathy towards him that
Gwenevere Abriel: Nope. Those are feelings.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're doing good. You hang in there for it. You have an opinion about that guy. I'm trying to get you to figure out what that is. Come on. If you and I are talking smack about that neighbor. What do we say about him.
Joshua Lopez: Or guy.
Gwenevere Abriel: You go to feeling and I this is important for our work together. Now I know what you do, you go to emotions, nine out of 1010 out of 10 times
Gwenevere Abriel: But that's not you think a therapist would love it, but I'm not. This is cognitive, behavioral, so it's I'm trying to get to the sponsoring belief.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's why you're noticing. I'm not going with the emotion you keep bringing up because this is not about the right side of the brain. You have a judgment about that guy.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you won't say it and we're going to see if we can get there. We're going to keep hammering away at it here. What do you you got somewhere with it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, so right he's incomplete. What do you think of that guy that's incomplete.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's an opinion. What is your opinion of him that guy that neighbor going home, nobody there. He's incomplete, what's your opinion of him not empathy. Not feeling for him. It's just an opinion and what is your judgment of him.
Joshua Lopez: Me get
Gwenevere Abriel: off the stage here because that page and helping me
Joshua Lopez: I thought I could find something there that would
Gwenevere Abriel: Help us now. I won't help you
Joshua Lopez: I am trying to get there. I'm not trying to, like, if
Joshua Lopez: I'm wrong.
Gwenevere Abriel: Here we're gonna do it again. Here we go. This time you are you ready. Yes. You're not going to expect this
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm gonna try and get you to the destination, which is the belief about the self and let's try it this way, once you to picture your mom sees that guy walking into an empty apartment. What's her opinion of that guy walking into an empty apartment.
Gwenevere Abriel: For judgment of him.
Joshua Lopez: know much about hers, but yes, my opinion would be that
Joshua Lopez: Yes.
Joshua Lopez: I want to say loser, but I don't know if that's
Joshua Lopez: Healthy
Joshua Lopez: Then label.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, but that's not what I asked was it I didn't say what's the healthy, did I, I didn't. I wanted you to know what it is and you fought hard to not say that you fought really hard and we had to dig a lot of time that's actually it
Gwenevere Abriel: He's a loser.
Gwenevere Abriel: And that it
Joshua Lopez: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. And doesn't that thought make you sad.
Gwenevere Abriel: Duh. Of course, it's gonna make you feel
Gwenevere Abriel: Better
Gwenevere Abriel: It's not actually effect.
Gwenevere Abriel: And the reason I can say that
Gwenevere Abriel: Is because
Gwenevere Abriel: I know personally that when my perspective changes my facts change because my emotional relationship with who I am and what I believe is acceptable and okay changes. And so the facts change.
Gwenevere Abriel: How I feel changes. I think this one I'm a loser is absolutely in tolerable for anyone who has it.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I think is probably the sponsoring belief that then results to this one. Well, it shouldn't be this way. It shouldn't be this way. And yet, there it is.
Gwenevere Abriel: And if you're denying your own reality, it shouldn't be this way. And there it is, well, how lonely and sad is that and how hopeless, is that
Gwenevere Abriel: So I think you just discovered
Gwenevere Abriel: The core belief which is
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm a loser. That's the troublemaker. That's a little trouble monster right there. That's the one. So now hold that. And now we're going to go look at this this fancy, fancy little activity. And now we can apply it in here. Okay. You worked hard for that.
Gwenevere Abriel: So notice the word
Gwenevere Abriel: It doesn't say you're happy, healthy thought does it
Gwenevere Abriel: No, it doesn't. And you worked hard to get to this one.
Gwenevere Abriel: So you write it down. So this would be your first let's say you're gonna like, I'm going to hack away, you know, each time I have a negative thought
Gwenevere Abriel: Or what I deem is negative. And I think it's negative because I'm feeling like crap. When I have it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Like I'm not enough. I should be, you know, further along. Why did I make this choice when I was 16 devil, but whenever you do with your, with your mind however you're busy judging yourself. Whenever you have one
Gwenevere Abriel: Going to sit your butt down and you can do these. So let's just pick the first one. Let's just run through it.
Gwenevere Abriel: took us a while to get here. Right. It's already a quarter of practically but here we go.
Gwenevere Abriel: So you would write down on a piece of paper. I'm a loser. You write it down so you can see which of the cognitive distortions you're involved in
Gwenevere Abriel: This will make it easier to think about the problem in a more positive and realistic way so they don't list the distortions in here. So I'm going to now that you know how to screen.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now you know how to screenshot. I'm going to give you this because you don't have. You don't know what this means. I'm assuming
Gwenevere Abriel: So I'm going to give you another something to take a picture of okay
Gwenevere Abriel: A couple versions of me see if I can pull them up quick quickly here. If I can cognitive
Gwenevere Abriel: Dissonance now.
Gwenevere Abriel: irrational beliefs. Yeah, let's do that one so irrational beliefs cognitive distortions. Those are basically the same thing. So cognitive means thought irrational just is referring to. It's inhuman
Gwenevere Abriel: Irrational just means rigid and the expectation is is next level, not from this universe. It's not human. We often do that to ourselves. I should be such and such. That's irrational, but that's not what is what is
Gwenevere Abriel: Something else.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm going to show you a picture and take a snap of this one too. Now you got that fancy new skill. This is going to be when you're writing down the negative belief, you're going to run through these and see which one you're engaged in
Gwenevere Abriel: Are you engaged in all or nothing thinking
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, wait a minute. This or no, I don't know, maybe it is
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm not perfect. I have failed. Look at that, either. I do it right or not at all. I wonder if you're engaged in all or nothing thinking with that I'm a loser thing.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because Wait, I have a failed marriage. Let's say you're judging yourself with that or I didn't do A, B, and C of
Gwenevere Abriel: The thoughts are, you might be engaged in this so you could look through here and say, Okay, yep. I'm doing this one. Let me check another one. Let me check my mental filter.
Gwenevere Abriel: Only paying attention to the certain types of evidence only paying attention. So noticing our failures but not seeing our success. So notice
Gwenevere Abriel: You didn't walk into the house and say, sweet.
Gwenevere Abriel: Sweet couch. I got my own place. I'm not up in my car. I'm not stuck with my mom, you don't focus on the positive or you don't go all the sweet silence, I can now rest.
Gwenevere Abriel: I can now you know kind of have a moment to do some reflection some reading or be kind of lazy lumpy or watch some empty minded TV you focus
Gwenevere Abriel: On the negative when you walk in, so you are engaged in mental filter. Well, there's another one, you're doing. Here's another one. Let's go to jump to conclusion.
Gwenevere Abriel: These are two key types of jumping to conclusions. There's mind reading
Gwenevere Abriel: Predicting the future. So this one, you might be doing it with this House is empty, I feel lonely.
Gwenevere Abriel: Always be like that. That would be fortune telling predicting the future. Okay, so that that might be
Gwenevere Abriel: You're not doing the mind reading really because you're not thinking about anybody else right in that moment, I don't think so. How about emotional reasoning. Oh, this one is so prolific so many people do this. So, assuming that BECAUSE WE FEEL SO I FEEL LONELY.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, assuming that because we feel a certain way.
Gwenevere Abriel: It must be true. So look what I bet you're doing it, watch. I'm lonely. I am a loser. It's a fact it's a fact because, look, I'm lonely. I shouldn't be lonely life shouldn't be like this. And it's a fact I'm a loser. And so it cycles around around around around around around around around
Gwenevere Abriel: And it reinforces itself. And so you're using emotional reasoning.
Gwenevere Abriel: Or they use an example of I'm embarrassed.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, I must be an idiot. No, no, it's not the truth. There's lots of reasons why you could be embarrassed.
Gwenevere Abriel: Or there's lots of reasons why you could be incorrectly embarrassed when really what might have been appropriate is being pissed off irritated frustrated
Gwenevere Abriel: Right or concerned about someone else's failure to, I don't know what they didn't give you the right information or they intentionally humiliated you maybe they're the emotion. There might be anger.
Gwenevere Abriel: But that's getting off the topic, but my point is, you could have been engaging and emotional reasoning when you're walking in that apartment door.
Gwenevere Abriel: How about labeling yourself stoop. Oh my gosh, look at even has it yours look, look, look, look, look, look. You see it down there under the stupid button.
Gwenevere Abriel: Even there. That's how common that is Josh, are you surprised to see that.
Joshua Lopez: No. Well, yeah, I guess.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's that common. It's one of those basic things we say to ourselves, really get ourselves bummed out.
Gwenevere Abriel: So you were mislabeling so the what this, this should really say is mislabeling so you sign a label to ourselves or to other people and it's a miss label.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm a loser. I'm completely useless.
Gwenevere Abriel: Or you might do it to someone else. They're a complete idiot. Well, you know, we're not completely anything we're partly this and some of that are not all one thing. So you're mislabeling
Gwenevere Abriel: You're engaging in quite a few of these do
Gwenevere Abriel: You get down in the sand swamp.
Gwenevere Abriel: This is how this is how you get there there so frequent that we out here. We got labels for them. We know what they're called, we can see when our clients are doing it when you guys are doing them.
Gwenevere Abriel: The trick is write them down and you look in here. He said, Can which 1am i doing. Let's go to catastrophizing this one you got a little bit in group from I think you were there right where I was doing that circle with the target we in there. I did that one.
Joshua Lopez: I don't think so.
Gwenevere Abriel: That was this week so nowhere because we're meeting. No. Okay, so let's keep going because I want you to be at least have some introduction to to to at least all of these. So there's more yay for us.
Gwenevere Abriel: So overgeneralizing everything is always rubbish. Nothing good ever happens to me. Okay, so see a pattern based upon a simple event.
Gwenevere Abriel: Or being overly broad in the conclusion. So it's either way. So you're taking
Gwenevere Abriel: I am alone over the next few days, and you're over generalizing it across time.
Gwenevere Abriel: So you might be engaging and overgeneralizing right this is this is
Gwenevere Abriel: I would say not. This might not be your go to, I might notice some of these others match it a little bit better. Let's go to them. This next one.
Gwenevere Abriel: A better example might be I failed a test like I'll never pass another test, I'm an idiot. I'll never pass another one that would be overgeneralizing or
Gwenevere Abriel: I'll never be able to learn anything new that would be overgeneralizing and these are irrational beliefs about ourselves. They're not based on the truth. The truth is, most people can learn most people make mistakes all people make mistakes.
Gwenevere Abriel: We have expectations for ourselves that are way too rigid
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay disqualifying the positive definitely you're doing that right just discounting the good things that have happened or that you have done.
Gwenevere Abriel: For some reason or another, so well that doesn't count. Well, yeah, I may have this apartment. But look, there's no one in it. See what a loser. I am so you discount the positive
Gwenevere Abriel: You can't look around and just see, look at these cool pictures. Hey, I have good taste. And I got a good deal. And it's got pictures of my family and in our night. Awesome.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so you're not doing that you're focusing on negative. So let's go to magnification blowing things out of proportion.
Gwenevere Abriel: Or you could be minimizing so that's sort of its opposites magnification or minimization.
Gwenevere Abriel: Are you sure you sure did. This one you said you did the show.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let me see exactly what you said find it.
Gwenevere Abriel: This isn't how it should be.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh my gosh, you're gonna apply that to anything, but it is that way.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yep, that's going to be this right here you if you eliminate should must and you oughta get rid of it with your, your language all together. Your, your mindset will drastically change. It would be nice if my kiddos were here, period.
Gwenevere Abriel: It would be nice if I
Gwenevere Abriel: Already had a dining room table. I kind of want to sit down and make a meal. It would be nice, but it should be when your reality is something else is a horrifying realization
Gwenevere Abriel: They're very different mindsets.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, the last one. They've got is personalization blaming yourself for taking responsibility for something that wasn't completely your fault to begin with. So, conversely, blaming other people for something that was partly your fault. So
Gwenevere Abriel: Over blaming yourself like I should have done this and that. There's that shoot again. So I'm going to pull back a little bit.
And I really
Gwenevere Abriel: Well,
Joshua Lopez: Quick question on that one. Um, so when it says blaming sorry I need glasses blaming yourself for taking responsibility for something that wasn't completely your fault.
Joshua Lopez: Then it goes to conversely blaming other people for something that was you're
Gwenevere Abriel: All the way the wording is bad. I wish this was written a little better. I would have, I would have said, partly
Joshua Lopez: Okay. So, so what does that exactly mean like is that still like is that the positive flip side to it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Or negative. All of these are negative.
Joshua Lopez: So, so come. Conversely, blaming other people for something that
Gwenevere Abriel: was partly your fault. Okay. Okay.
Joshua Lopez: Yeah, I think I got it, I think. Reading
Joshua Lopez: It out loud. It makes sense. Yeah. And I know
Joshua Lopez: We might head. It kind of trying to just was like, wait, what
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, yeah, their wording is a little, a little off. I would have said, partly I would have put in, because it really isn't ever just one
Gwenevere Abriel: One fault, it won't. It doesn't work well when we simply just blame and I don't want to get too philosophical at this late hour here.
Gwenevere Abriel: But it doesn't work well in us feeling okay with with ourselves and in relationship and in our community. It just feels better. We are happier when we can say, yeah, I made it. I may have played a little part in that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Really small part
Joshua Lopez: Now I get the whole downside and blip in your yourself for something that you know wasn't completely your fault. What would. What's the negative side to just putting the blame all the blame on somebody like
I know
Joshua Lopez: The reason why I ask is,
Joshua Lopez: You know, like I i've openly admitted that my, my fault in all this.
Joshua Lopez: Separation that divorce, just the way things are kind of blamed myself.
Joshua Lopez: And kind of like taking full bling. Now, on the flip side, you have my ex who hasn't ever admitted any wrongdoing any of it.
Joshua Lopez: What's the negative side to doing that.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're going to be an angry unpleasant unreasonable irrational person to be around.
Gwenevere Abriel: Tell me how many people do you want to be around that don't know how to own their part.
Gwenevere Abriel: So we're taking your ex obviously that's who we're talking about right.
Gwenevere Abriel: How likely is it that she's happy inside
Gwenevere Abriel: That she's blaming someone else it's out of her control and she had nothing to do with it. She's subject to the next person completely whatever ring.
Gwenevere Abriel: It doesn't give her a sense of efficacy, either to say this person, unfortunately, it's you. So I don't know if you can do this particular analogy but
Gwenevere Abriel: If you are the person going through it, where you didn't know how to own your grain of truth. I would say
Gwenevere Abriel: What is that like to, to be so helpless to the outside world that you had no part in it. You never know. So I might do it again.
Gwenevere Abriel: There's different angles. You can come at it. And, and, secondly, I would probably be hearing from her and she's mad at people.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm going to be hearing from that woman if she's my client, she is going to be this guy did this to me and and and and then he did this and then he did this and I would be, uh huh. Well,
Gwenevere Abriel: WHAT PART DID YOU PLAY.
Joshua Lopez: That actually that actually makes a lot of sense, a lot of sense. It just seems like whenever I am around her, or have a brief conversation with her. She just she always just seem so angry with me like
Gwenevere Abriel: All the time. All the time.
Joshua Lopez: And that's why I asked, just because you know I saw myself in the, you know, blaming yourself for something that wasn't completely your fault. I see that in me then that second part of it.
Joshua Lopez: brought it up.
Joshua Lopez: That because, you know, in all of this.
Joshua Lopez: You know early on when I was like, I'm sorry I did this. I'm sorry I did that I you know I was real apologetic, and I was trying to own my mistakes.
Joshua Lopez: You know out of her response. It felt like she just said sorry because she thought that's what I wanted to hear. But she never said I'm sorry for this. Or I'm sorry I did that it was
Joshua Lopez: I'm sorry tune. I'm sorry to and you know it was never to to me an apology is not sincere and it doesn't count as an apology. If you're not apologizing for something you
Joshua Lopez: Get a message.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, yeah.
Joshua Lopez: It's like an empty apology. It's just words.
Joshua Lopez: And I do notice, which you were saying that they're angry all the time.
Joshua Lopez: A couple of times I have talked to her, she's like, Oh, my boss did this and I was like,
Joshua Lopez: You know, I mean like her response to him was real cold and true and that's how she's been with me for a long time, just real cold and true.
Joshua Lopez: But you know, I don't know if that's every relationship. She has if she's like that, but I do know towards me and towards certain other aspects in her life. She does seem like she's just angry all the time.
Joshua Lopez: Especially with me. I mean, I can ask how her day was and it's just like a really cold and true response.
Joshua Lopez: You know, one day she was tired of picking up the kids. I was like, oh, what you know like you. You look tired like oh I'm exhausted. I was like, Oh, well,
Joshua Lopez: You know, how was your day off. It's like, oh, I just laid down as, like, you know, are you tired from yesterday. She's like, No, I was off yesterday.
Joshua Lopez: Like, oh, you know what what got you feeling so tired. Oh, it just, I'm tired and you know I mean it was just like real, you know, like, Hey, I'm just trying to make small talk. I'm not judging you for being tired. I'm not. You know what I'm saying it was just
Gwenevere Abriel: That's defensiveness. So what she was doing was defensive as if so, um, it's actually
Gwenevere Abriel: A sign
Gwenevere Abriel: Of your ego strength that you can sit with being wrong off mistaken, not knowing
Gwenevere Abriel: It's a sign of your strength, actually. So you and I spend have spent some time around this notion of identity and you label it may be incomplete.
Gwenevere Abriel: And we've spent some time in there, but this time.
Gwenevere Abriel: You sort of saying that there's something kind of maybe need some bolstering we need to work on confidence. So you've kind of said that
Gwenevere Abriel: I focus on on this word identity, you might label it confidence and I might say, Well, identity and
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, focusing on your own wants, needs and preferences and I spend time there. But this time I want to give you props, because the fact that you can sit with your grain of truth is a compliment.
Gwenevere Abriel: To your stability in knowing who you are people that have a fragile sense of self.
Gwenevere Abriel: Cannot afford to be wrong.
Gwenevere Abriel: Can't be has to be right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Have to and how how pleasant, is it to be around that type of person.
Joshua Lopez: Yeah, that makes a lot of sense. I mean, she's the type of person where a fact could be sitting right in front of her. She
Joshua Lopez: will rationalize being right you know like it could be just flat out evidence that hey, you had a part in this. Or, you know, maybe you should have done this or something, something of that nature. And she's just she's right you know she's 100% right all the time.
Gwenevere Abriel: So, you know, the irony is
Gwenevere Abriel: That it tends to be those folks those defensive folks that are actually more insecure than you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now you can write do you picture the maybe it's a boss or maybe it's a friend or someone and they're like this.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh yeah screwed up. Whoops. And like I got, I got to work on that. And it just rolls off like this.
Gwenevere Abriel: Don't they look cool.
Joshua Lopez: And, you know,
Joshua Lopez: I can't take credit and say, I've always been great at owning my mistakes, but I know, working with you. I know the situation. I've went through owning my truth owning my mistakes.
Joshua Lopez: A couple weeks ago, I had my my two months three review where my trainer and my team leader who's like my manager, my boss had to sit down and go over the this list of things and then it would have comments at the bottom of each of them.
Joshua Lopez: And one of the comments my trainer made in one of those was, you know, Joshua is quick to admit a mistake and correct it. He owns his mistakes you know doesn't make excuses for anything.
Joshua Lopez: And hearing that I was kind of like, you know, I do do that in it. I mean, as soon as
Joshua Lopez: As soon as they're like well why did you do that. And I'm like, Oh, shoot. That's my fault. I should have. I should have done this, and I apologize. You know, I
Joshua Lopez: I know where I made that mistake. I know how to fix it, you know, to mean like recognizing it right away. Um, you know what I mean, it just it
Joshua Lopez: Hearing that that last bit of those those things. Um, I gotta say make me feel a bit better made me feel like a better person than it made me kind of confirm
Joshua Lopez: What I knew about Jacqueline you know about always being right always, you know, to mean and just being so unpleasant towards me. It's something that I knew, but it kind of just confirmed
Joshua Lopez: It just gave me a different perspective. You know, so I do very much appreciate that. It just kind of opened my eyes and you know to mean it just
Joshua Lopez: And that's that when I told you I was doing a lot better. This week until today. We had a pretty big fight about to about a week and a half ago.
Joshua Lopez: And I just, I sat down and I just kind of just told myself, dude, this is what you're crying about this is what you're hurting about
Joshua Lopez: Like look at how she is I look at how she handled that fight. You know, it's just, she would rather resort to
Joshua Lopez: You know, because that's talking. I told you I met a I reconnected with the friend of mine Evelyn she'd been real great companionship.
Joshua Lopez: And I told her you know this fight. It just, it was embarrassing was in front of the kids and she's like, dude, that's not on your character that's her character that's she's the one who should feel embarrassed. She's the one who should, you know what I mean, it just
Joshua Lopez: It kind of puts things into perspective when I start to miss her on like you. You know what that's gonna be like, like, you know, the connection you have with her. Now it's never going to be what it was. She's a different person.
Joshua Lopez: You know what I mean, it just
Joshua Lopez: As much as it hurts to admit. Like, I don't really know who she is anymore. It also kind of helps me to say you really want to be around somebody like that, you know,
Gwenevere Abriel: That's beautiful. That's taking so what you're doing, from the psychobabble world is you're taking. Sorry, but yours are really bad.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're taking an emotional response and you don't just roll with it.
Gwenevere Abriel: What you do is you dip into this that thinking part of the brain. The Thinker thinker. This one top notch and you're going, wait a second. I like the way she's handling this
Gwenevere Abriel: Is happening. This is my wife now ex wife. I don't need. I didn't even know if you guys actually signed the paperwork. So still kind of think of her but I got you. Sorry about that. So you go it's happening. I don't like it.
Gwenevere Abriel: If you dip into the member on paper. You saw should if you dip into the irrational thinking it should be like this.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's going to stay stuck in that negative emotion. But if instead what you did do, which is, oh, this is a crummy feeling I'm feeling kind of Jaak embarrassments one of the yuck. Right. Yeah, well, oh, I don't like what she's doing.
Gwenevere Abriel: And it's happening. This is who she is. These days it represents, maybe even years of her behavior.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's real. The illusion of 10 years ago 12 years ago. That's not what's happening. This is it. This is happening.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you're able to go to. Well, I kind of glad I'm not in it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because I'd be unhappy. I think
Gwenevere Abriel: That's going to get you into a. All right. I made it. I made a solid decision. I'm a part of this, this is this is a good thing. I'm going to grow.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm gonna, I'm going to be something instead of just tolerating a negative marriage, I might grow up might actually
Gwenevere Abriel: Have a healthy relationship with someone because you're growing up, you're doing this work now.
Joshua Lopez: Yeah, definitely. I remember a while back, probably a long time ago.
Joshua Lopez: There was like Dr. Phil or something.
Joshua Lopez: He was then you know how relationships work. And if you're the type of person who doesn't believe you had any fault in a relationship that ended badly, and you just play this victim.
Joshua Lopez: Next relationship. It's going to repeat itself. But if you're the type of person who can look at your mistakes and admit them and grow from them. Your next relationship. I promise you, you're not going to repeat your next, you know, I mean, you're
Joshua Lopez: Not, you're not going to repeat the same the same mistakes you might make new ones. But you know what I'm saying it's your, you have the ability to grow.
Joshua Lopez: And I do feel like, yeah, she's already found companionship. She's looks happy on the outside, but at the same time. I'm like, how long is that going to last. If she's not willing to grow or learn
Joshua Lopez: Yeah, it's taking me a lot longer to let go, it's taking me a lot longer to do these certain things.
Joshua Lopez: But I know when I do find somebody or I do find companionship, that I know my mistakes. I know you know where I went wrong. I know how to fix it. And I know you know what I mean, it's just
Joshua Lopez: Um, yeah, so I do
Joshua Lopez: I do really, really appreciate the work that we do. It's out for really helpful.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. Good. Well, I can see it. And I'm starting to see
Gwenevere Abriel: Just in some of the language that you're using just write a couple of times in session that you're starting to head into the clearing
Gwenevere Abriel: Your head in there because you're saying things that
Gwenevere Abriel: Typically what you'll do is as soon as this comes up, you'll just be in the emotion, you'll be in it and then each thought is this
Gwenevere Abriel: It shouldn't be like this shouldn't be like this shouldn't be like this shouldn't be like this and it keeps got but what you did today was probably the way the last few days prior to last night have been which is you might have been more in
Gwenevere Abriel: I could look at this as an opportunity for my gross. I could look at this as an opportunity
Gwenevere Abriel: For a healthy, happy relationship and maybe I'll be happier. I think
Gwenevere Abriel: A little more of it.
Gwenevere Abriel: We're normally you use what we would call emotional reasoning which is if I'm feeling sad right then, someone is deliberately hurting me they're intending to do it this the world. And it's a helpless feeling and I'm no good. And of course, you get to I'm loser quite quickly.
Gwenevere Abriel: But I didn't see it right here at the tail end of today. I'm seeing something else you're able to see. Oh, there's another way to look at this woman's behavior.
Gwenevere Abriel: What about my opinion about behavior, not just, I have to take care of that behavior and feel like I did something wrong. There's a lot of other ways to take a look at that behavior and you just touched on a couple of them.
Gwenevere Abriel: One of them. I don't like it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Or hey, she's kind of insecure, in a way, I don't really want someone insecure. I'm getting more secure in myself and be nice to be with someone who's a whole person, not to incomplete people
Gwenevere Abriel: Because that's sort of that child's two hearts kind of thing like to have a heart that's kind of
Gwenevere Abriel: That's like middle school love
Gwenevere Abriel: Mature love is I'm a whole I'm a whole man on hold and I want to share my life with someone and I'll be flawed and I'll make mistakes and all on them. You already got that part down. And wouldn't it be nice to be with someone who can do the same.
Absolutely.
Gwenevere Abriel: The work you're doing. I know it's hard but I think it's gonna think it's going to pay off for you.
Joshua Lopez: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Alright man, do you want to schedule another appointment. Two weeks from today. Ish, yeah, that
Joshua Lopez: That that'll work because next week you'll have group and the following week my days off, or the same wednesday thursday
Joshua Lopez: So, so two weeks from now my days off or Wednesday Thursday.
Gwenevere Abriel: So it's probably
Gwenevere Abriel: A 36
Joshua Lopez: That makes it a little easier on like planning our individual sessions. Just, just know the weeks that I'm in group.
Joshua Lopez: You don't have to memorize those days off because I'm in group, we won't set set up an individual with the following week
Joshua Lopez: After group I'm off Wednesday, Thursday, if that makes it easier because I know my schedule is kind of hard. It's hard to explain. For one, and it's probably even harder to understand
Gwenevere Abriel: I just all I need from you is is a yes or no, honestly.
Gwenevere Abriel: To schedule is may 13 which is to Wednesdays from today going to work.
Joshua Lopez: at 11am 11am may 13
Joshua Lopez: If it's on a Wednesday. Two weeks from now than. Yes. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: May 13 so when you hang up with me cross check that, because you'll do the calculation on that and then you just let me know texting back and say, whoops.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So that's two weeks because next week would be May six, so then the next Wednesday would be may 13 so that's what I just did I flipped my calendar.
Gwenevere Abriel: To to forward. And that's where we landed, so I will see you then. And I'm going to send a quick message to dr reality we're here. I don't know if she has any medication, something to say about it. But all of a sudden know you were here and I'll get to see you group and next Tuesday, maybe
Joshua Lopez: Yes. So yeah, this, this coming Tuesday. I'll be in group.
Gwenevere Abriel: Come in and remember it's well 12 o'clock on Tuesday.
Gwenevere Abriel: probing questions.
Gwenevere Abriel: You, we missed you there. I wish you were there is a good group, but
Gwenevere Abriel: It was nice having you internet there. We don't just don't get to see quite as often because you're kind of on a bi weekly sometimes monthly kind of thing so
Joshua Lopez: Yeah, I noticed. Everybody in that group was pretty new. So it was, it was pretty cool to meet somebody or to see people who were, we were you know me and the net were
Joshua Lopez: Like a year and a half, two years ago, you know, to mean and to see their Judaism and, you know, I've tried quitting before but
Joshua Lopez: never really had this type of helping because that's the way I'm sure she felt, and I know that's how I felt when I came into bright heart like
Joshua Lopez: I've done this before. I've tried this before but never like this you may mean never with the support that you and Dr. Aubrey out can provide. And you know, I mean, it's just awesome.
Gwenevere Abriel: I like that combination of having both so hopefully everything will work out, we'll be able to have you in there again next Tuesday. Okay.
Joshua Lopez: You have a good day.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, so
Melissa Harrison: I just got home from work. So trying to connect to Wi Fi and all that. Then again,
Melissa Harrison: Well,
To make
Gwenevere Abriel: We both her log out and come right back. So just log out and then literally hit log in right away.
Okay.